# Cancel Culture and redflag hashtag: a social network analysis approach to social norms and morality generated in Twitter
## Project for Network Science course at University of Padova.

**Authors**: Lucia Depaoli, Alessandro Fella

**Project Summary**: Interdisciplinary project developed with Social Media students. Investigation of the \#redflag hashtag in tweets, by performing analysis such as community detection, control group analysis, degree distribution, assortativity analysis, sentiment analysis.

**Abstract**: Social Networks are virtual spaces where people can almost freely express their interests, experiences and opinions in always more and new different ways. Whether or not this is positive for society is still a topic of discussion, but for sure nowadays they influence many sociological aspects on global scale, as they are part of the public social sphere. In fact, on one hand they reflect the dominant ideology and culture, on the other hand, they create new and alternative areas of discussion. Actually, while platforms like Instagram, TikTok or Facebook are more related to the sharing of multimedia, Twitter is particularly used for sharing thoughts and opinions and as a consequence it can be scraped to analyze many different sociological trends and behaviors. In this project, we try to understand whether there exist a connection between the sociological phenomenon of cancellation and the RedFlag topic, trending on social media from September to November 2021. First, we understand which are the topics related to the RedFlag trend studying the network of hashtags linked to it (since on social media, especially on twitter, hashtags indicates topics). Using this network, we look for different communities inside it that represent different themes related to RedFlag and we choose six of them to be analyzed further. Afterwards, we build semantic networks of the words used inside each of those communities, trying to understand what is considered as a RedFlag in the different topics. For each of them, many Network Science tools are used to determine their technical features: studies about degree distribution, centrality and robustness show the scale-free nature of all the semantic networks we consider, meaning the presence of high-degree nodes (hubs). A control group oftweets not including the hashtag #RedFlag is then built to confirm the influence of that hashtagon the words used in each topic. Finally, a sentiment analysis is performed using different tools,giving sensible and consistent results about the general feelings that characterize the semanticnetworks. The results are eventually analyzed from a psycho-social perspective, and comparedwith cases of cancellation, with the purpose of verifying if this type of hashtags contribute togenerating social norms and shared morality in today’s society.

For more information, see the [report](https://github.com/luciadepaoli/redflag-project-network-science/blob/main/CancelCulture_RedFlag_report.pdf) and the community detection [report](https://github.com/luciadepaoli/redflag-project-network-science/blob/main/CommunityDetection_Depaoli_Mistrali_report.pdf).

